# Milestone 4

⚙️ Overview – For the fourth week, my primary goal was to polish the project by refactoring my code, fixing bugs, and improving semantics and accessibility. I am happy to say that I accomplished all the tasks I set out to do, and the project is working even better than before. My codebase is now less cluttered after I consolidated my API code and contexts into separate files. As a result, it also reduced the size and complexity of the files containing the logic for my pages. I determined the cause of the rate-limiting errors and almost eliminated them entirely by fixing a bug I introduced in Milestone 3. Now the Answers game board loads perfectly almost every time. And lastly, I made some aesthetic, semantic, and accessibility improvements to the site to improve the user experience. So overall, I am extremely happy with the state of my project as this class comes to a close, and I’m proud of the application I’ve built.

<br>

🌵 Challenges – This week, I had one main challenge. When refactoring my codebase, I was trying to migrate my useQuery and useMutation hooks into separate files to reduce code repetition and clean up the logic in my pages. While it was easy to migrate the useQuery hook, I had trouble migrating the useMutation hook because I couldn’t figure out how to pass parameters to it from a separate file due to how the hook is structured in the React Query library. After learning that I can wrap the useQuery and useMutation hooks in a custom hook and figuring out how to pass parameters into my custom hooks, I was then able to consolidate my codebase successfully. So even though I eventually figured things out, it did take me an unexpected amount of time to get back on track due to the challenge. However, I now have a much cleaner codebase than before, so it was totally worth it.

<br>

🏆 Accomplishments – I think my greatest accomplishment this week was figuring out the cause of the rate-limiting issue I was experiencing on the Answers game board page. It turns out, I introduced a bug in Milestone 3 that was checking to see if a newly created empty array had a length of less than six. Since the array was empty, the if statement would always return true and trigger a refetch of the Answers categories from the JService.io API, thereby triggering the rate limit error responses. By moving the if check further down in the function, I not only fixed the issue but also made it so that the function will refetch the categories if less than six categories are returned from the API. So overall, it was a win-win, and the Answers game board now loads perfectly almost every time. It was a very unexpected outcome that I am happy I invested the time to solve.

<br>

🔮 Next Steps – In terms of next steps, I think it would be cool to further develop the project by adding a multi-user account and authentication system. Also, with additional customization, I think teachers could use Question Master to create practice quizzes or in-class game shows for students. Either way, I am looking forward to acquiring additional skills in my future classes and to circle back and add more features later. At the moment, I'm very proud of Question Master and the time and effort I have put into the Project & Portfolio 2 class.

Please discuss the following:

#### Changes

- Discuss any changes or updates that you have made to your site since Milestone #3.
  - Since Milestone 3, I refactored my codebase, squashed a few bugs, and improved the semantics and accessibility of the project. Regarding refactoring, I migrated my context hooks into separate files for each context. I also migrated my useQuery and useMutation hooks into separate files based on the API that was being utilized. Regarding bugs, I got to the bottom of what was causing many rate-limiting API errors on the Answers game board page, which turned out to be a logic bug that I introduced in Milestone 3. After fixing the logic, the Answers game board now loads perfectly almost every time. In terms of semantics, I modified the heading structures on each page to have a better hierarchy. And in terms of accessibility, I added some aria-roles and aria-labels to the icons in the project, changed the font family in my form input fields from Roboto-ThinItalic to Roboto-Italic and updated the text color in the input fields to a darker color for better contrast. And as an added bonus, I added a background image to the pages that I felt complemented the project's overall appearance. Overall, these updates enhanced the structure and organization of my codebase, squashed some critical bugs, and improved the user experience across the board. I’m glad I made them a priority for Milestone 4.

#### Styling

- Discuss the process you used to style your page.
  - A large portion of the process of designing the pages in my project was completed within the first two weeks of this class because I utilized a design System in the prototyping stage. In the prototyping stage, we were tasked with choosing a design system and using the ready-made components in our Figma prototype as building blocks for our project's design. There were many design systems to choose from, so it took a little time to evaluate each one. But after looking over the Orbit design system and visualizing how its components would match the aesthetic appearance I wanted to create for my Question Master idea, I knew it was a perfect choice. After my prototype was built using the Orbit design system in Figma, I started building my pages from scratch to the exact specifications of the Orbit design system in VS Code in weeks two and three as my project went from a prototype in Figma to a fully functional minimum viable product by the end of week three. I even used Figma and Chrome Dev Tools to check that the colors, paddings, margins, font families, and font weights were precisely the same as the settings in my Figma prototype. In the fourth week, I tweaked a few of the font weights, font families, and colors to improve the user experience, increase contrast and improve the readability and accessibility of the project. To pull everything together, I added an excellent background image that I found on Unsplash. And that is the process I used to style the pages of my project.
